A court in Indonesia has sentenced a leading member of the Islamist militant group that carried out the 2002 Bali bombings to 15 years in prison.
The court in Jakarta found Zulkarnaen, 58, guilty of terrorism.
He had been on Indonesias most-wanted list ever since the bombings and had evaded arrest until December 2020.
The blasts at two bars packed with tourists on the holiday island killed 202 people from 21 nations in Indonesias deadliest militant attack.
Among those killed at Paddys Irish Bar and the nearby Sari Club were 88 Australians, 38 Indonesians and 28 Britons.
In 2008, three men were executed for their role in the bombings, and several others have either been jailed or killed by the security forces.
Last year, a radical Muslim cleric linked to the Bali attacks was freed after 10 years in jail.
Abu Bakar Baasyir is the former head of Jemaah Islamiah, an al-Qaeda-inspired group behind the attack.
Zulkarnaen, also known as Aris Sumarsono, was part of the same group, prosecutors told the court.
They said numerous other attacks had been carried out by a special unit under his command in Indonesia and the Philippines.
These included Christmas and New Year church bombings in Indonesia in 2000 and 2001, a blast at the Philippines embassy in Jakarta in 2000, the 2003 Jakarta Marriot hotel bombing and the Australian embassy bombing in Jakarta in 2004.
Zulkarnaen, for whose capture the US had offered a $5m (£3.
7m) bounty, admitted the Bali bombings were carried out by members of his team.
But he told the court they had not advised him about the attack in advance, AFP news agency reports.
The judges did not agree that this absolved him of guilt.
The fact that he was the head of the team and agreed on a plan in Bali.
it could be considered agreeing to the plan, said the presiding judge who was not named for security reasons.
Zulkarnaen was found guilty of aiding and encouraging terrorism by lending money and giving shelter to militants and withholding information about attacks.
But he was not found guilty of direct involvement in the bombings of the Bali nightclubs.
Prosecutors had asked for a life sentence.
The U. S. hit 1 million new Covid-19 cases Monday, according to data compiled by NBC News, underscoring the threat of the omicron variant as the third year of the pandemic gets underway.
Washington, D. C. , and Florida have had the largest jumps in new cases in the last two weeks.
Covid cases increased by 902 percent in Washington in that time, while cases in Florida rose by 744 percent, according to an NBC News analysis of state and local health data.
The record single-day total could reflect delayed reporting, as a number of states did not announce data on New Year’s Eve and during the holiday weekend.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that the omicron variant of the coronavirus now accounts for up to 95 percent of U. S. test samples that were reviewed last week, according to modeled projections.
But the projection could differ from later estimates.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the World Health Organization, warned last month that the omicron and delta variants were fueling an alarming trend.
I am highly concerned that omicron, being highly transmissible and spreading at the same time as delta, is leading to a tsunami of cases, Tedros said Wednesday at a news conference in Geneva.
However, even as U. S. case counts rose in recent weeks, reported deaths did not appear to be surging — suggesting that the omicron variant leads to a more mild form of Covid-19, especially among people who have been vaccinated.
The general trend that I’m seeing is, if you’re boosted and you get Covid, you really just at worst end up with bad cold symptoms.
It’s not like before, where you were coughing, couldn’t say sentences and were short of breath, Dr. Matthew Bai, an emergency medicine physician at Mount Sinai Queens in New York City, said late last month.
There are obviously exceptions — like if you start out with a very weakened immune system, your immune response won’t be as strong with a booster.
But in your average person, a booster’s definitely going to make a difference, Bai said.
The average number of daily hospitalizations in the U. S. was 93,281 Monday, an increase of 35 percent in the previous two weeks.
In a separate development Tuesday, Maryland Gov.
Larry Hogan declared a 30-day state of emergency to combat a rise in Covid cases, mobilizing 1,000 members of the Maryland National Guard to help state and local health officials.
Twelve people, including eight children, were killed Wednesday morning after flames ripped through a Philadelphia rowhouse, fire officials said.
Officials had previously said that at least 13 were killed.
Firefighters arrived at the three-story structure at 869 N. 23rd St. in the citys Fairmount neighborhood about 6:40 a. m. , according to the Philadelphia Fire Department.
It took about 50 minutes to control the blaze, the department said.
Even hours after flames were extinguished, firefighters were going through the rubble and feared there might be more victims.
In addition to the fatalities, two people were in critical condition, according to authorities.
One of those injured was taken to Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia and the other to Temple University Hospital, officials said.
We are devastated by the tragic loss of life–several of whom are children — and my thoughts are with the families and loved ones of the victims.
I cannot express how unimaginable this is for loved ones, said Mayor Jim Kenney.
There was heavy fire, First Deputy Fire Commissioner Craig Murphy said earlier.
Its feeding on contents, its feeding on oxygen and its feeding on fire. 
There were four battery-operated smoke alarms in the building and none of them worked, officials said.
This is without a doubt one of the most tragic days in our city’s history, the loss of so many people in such a tragic way, Kenney told reporters.
It appeared that most of the damage was contained to one building in the densely populated residential neighborhood.
The rowhouse is owned and operated by the Philadelphia Housing Authority, the city said.
I dont have the words for how were feeling right now as a community and as a department, Murphy said.
The cause of the fire was under investigation Wednesday evening, and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is assisting, officials said.
The city called it a complex and multifaceted investigation that would take time.
We plan on and intend on getting a cause for this fire, Murphy said.
We plan on making sure that this tremendous loss life did not happen in vain.
Eight people lived in one unit that spanned the first and second floors, while 18 resided in another unit that took up the second and third floors.
That is a tremendous amount of people to be living in a duplex, Murphy said.
State Sen. Sharif Street, who represents the neighborhood where the fire happened, also wondered about the number of people housed under one roof early Wednesday.
Why were so many people choosing to live in one structure.
Certainly if they had better options they would have made better choices, Street told NBC Philadelphia.
Kenney said he understood the difficult housing choices some families have to make.
You talk about the number of people in the house, sometimes its better for people to be indoors than on the street, he said.
You dont know the circumstances of each and every family.
Maybe there are relatives or people who needed to be sheltered.
Obviously the tragedy happened and we all mourn for it.
But we cant make judgment on the number people living in a house because sometimes people just need to be indoors. 
The building was last inspected in May and all smoke detectors were working at that time, according to Dinesh Indala, the housing authoritys senior executive vice president of operations.
I dont know if they were replaced or tampered with, Indala said, when asked why smoke detectors apparently did not work on Wednesday morning.
Indala said the housing authority is cooperating with fire investigators and he pleaded with residents: Please dont tamper with the smoke detectors and dont the batteries out for any reason. 
The structure, built around 1920, sits on top of a 1,105-square-foot lot and had no outstanding code violations, according to city building department records.
The urban block is just a 15-minute walk from the Philadelphia Museum of Art, home of the famed Rocky steps, and a little more than one mile south of Temple University.
On Wednesday, residents gathered near the scene of the deadly blaze to hold a vigil for its victims.
Some residents could be seen holding flowers and candles, with one attendee, Lori Braunstein calling Wednesdays tragedy incredibly heartbreaking. 
President Joe Biden was briefed about the fire, a White House official said.
First lady Jill Biden tweeted, My heart is with the families and loved ones of the victims of the tragic fire in Philadelphia.
Wednesdays tragedy came 13 years and a week after seven people in southwest Philadelphia died in a late December 2008 blaze.
Four children were killed in another southwest Philadelphia fire in July 2014.
Senate Republicans are expected to once again block a voting bill put forward by Democrats in the latest partisan showdown over voting rights, an issue Democrats are seeking to spotlight despite the fact that they lack the votes to pass the legislation.
The Senate is on track to hold a vote Wednesday evening to attempt to break a GOP filibuster on the legislation, which combines key provisions of two bills: the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.
At least 10 Republicans would need to vote with Democrats to clear the 60-vote threshold to break a filibuster, which is not expected to happen amid widespread Republican opposition to the voting legislation.
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has said that if Republicans block the bill, he will hold a vote to change Senate rules to allow for a talking filibuster on the voting legislation.
The proposed rules change would force lawmakers who want to filibuster the bill to come to the Senate floor and speak in opposition.
Once those speeches come to an end, the Senate would be able to hold a simple majority vote for final passage.
A vote to change the rules has not yet been scheduled but could happen as soon as late Wednesday evening.
But Democrats do not have the votes to change Senate filibuster rules either with moderate Democratic Sens.
Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona expected to oppose such a move.
Manchin has said he will not vote to eliminate or weaken the filibuster and Sinema has defended the 60-vote threshold.
Both senators have argued the filibuster helps bring about bipartisan compromise in the Senate.
Mark Kelly backs rules change to pass voting rights legislation Mark Kelly backs rules change to pass voting rights legislation As a result, the push to change Senate rules sets up a major showdown among Democrats as the party gears up to put two of its own members on the spot in an effort that appears doomed to fail.
Democrats, who control only 50 seats in the Senate, are under enormous pressure from liberal activists to take action on voting rights and President Joe Biden has trained his focus on the issue as other elements of his domestic agenda remained stalled.
Biden vowed to keep fighting during a recent visit to Capitol Hill but conceded that he doesnt know if Democrats will be able to pass legislation they are pushing for.
The honest to God answer is I dont know whether we can get this done, Biden said.
Schumer gave an impassioned floor speech on Wednesday and defended the push to change Senate rules.
As we debate this issue, so critical to the wellspring of our democracy, we will all confront the critical question: Shall members of this chamber do what is necessary to pass these bills and move them to the Presidents desk.
Its my hope that courage awakens within the heart of our Republican colleagues before the day is out, he said, adding that if the Senate cannot protect the right to vote then the Senate rules must be reformed. 
Our proposal for a talking filibuster on these pieces of legislation would be the first step towards passing voting rights, restoring this body and breaking the gridlock that we now face on this vital issue, Schumer said.
Face masks will no longer be mandatory in public places and COVID-19 passports will be dropped for large events as infections level off in most parts of the country, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Wednesday.
Johnson told lawmakers that the restrictions were being eased because government scientists think it is likely that the surge of infections prompted by the highly contagious omicron variant has now peaked nationally.
While hospitals in northern England still are getting pressed by high caseloads and infections were still rising in schools, Johnson said hospital admissions and patients in intensive care units elsewhere in England were stabilizing or falling.